# Tracing Complex Shapes from Images for Cognitive Vision

The term cognitive vision has been introduced in the past few of years to encapsulate an attempt to achieve more robust, resilient, and adaptable computer vision systems by endowing them with a cognitive faculty: the ability to learn, adapt, weigh alternative solutions, and develop new strategies for analysis and interpretation. Cognition is not a passive process, where an observer merely is monitoring an external environment. In addition, the system has facilities for communication with the environment through which it also can articulate its knowledge. The perception is active in the sense that the system can use the embodiment to interact with the environment, which can be used to change the state of the environment, which subsequently can be observed by the perception system.

Contour is known as a representative feature of imagery object, and thus, its detection is problem in the field of computer vision. Contours can be explained simply as a curve joining all the continuous points (along the boundary), having the same color or intensity. The contours are a useful tool for shape analysis and object detection and recognition. And got to learn how we can use it to find geometrical shapes in an image.

Tracing shapes is fundamentally required for performing practical tasks, such as object detection and scene understanding. As described in, a contour is defined as an outline representing or bounding the shape or form of an object. Contour detection attempts to extract curves which represent object shapes from images. In fact, the concept of contour is based on human′s common experience, which does not have a formal mathematical definition. Contour is closely related to two additional concepts, i.e., edge and boundary, which correspond to the discontinuities in photometrical, geometrical and physical characteristics of objects in images. It is believed that a clear distinction among the three concepts facilitates the feature selection when designing certain special detectors. The object detection based on deep learning is an important application in deep learning technology, which is characterized by its strong capability of feature learning and feature representation compared with the traditional object detection methods. 

